A C++ educational chatbot capable of introducing IP addressing for beginners as a topic and calculating subnets.

IPBot is an educational tool for computer engineering students and computer network beginners alike.With Internet Protocol (IP) Addressing as its core, this chatbot aims to teach and help its user base in expanding their knowledge about computer networks through providing three (3) different functionalities.

The first one will discuss the concepts of IP addressing such as the definition of internet protocol (IP address), its architecture, and its different classifications that are labelled from Class A to Class E. The second feature requires more engagement from its user where it enables them to input a random IP address and then the system will provide its details including its class, network ID, host ID, default subnet mask and wildcard mask. Finally, for the last feature, this chatbot also has the capability to perform IP subnetting – a method that allows a single IP network address to span multiple physical networks. This enables the chatbot to act as a calculator that will assist the user in identifying the subnet mask of a single IP address based on the number of subnets required by the user.

With these three functionalities, the group believes that it can help computer engineering students and computer network enthusiasts to strengthen their foundation in computer networking. More so for computer engineering students since the subject is included in their curriculum. Moreover, computer engineers who recently pursue a career in computer networking may use this as a reviewer or guidance on one of the fundamentals of their field.
